In this lecture, we take a look at the Java Iterator.
So what is an iterator object?
An iterator is an object that could be used to iterate for a collection.
Iterate means to perform repeatedly.
We can iterate through a collection such as a list, arrays, array, lists and more.
And we must import iterator from the java util package.
The iterator object has access to a number of useful methods, and I explain some of these in the next
few slides.
So let's review the below code.
So this is code similar to the ones that we've used in the previous two lectures.
But I want you to take note of lines 17 and 18.
So on line 18, I'm using the iterator interface and I'm creating an object called it an equal, the
collection name and then it uses dot iterator.
So by using iterator I can then use this its object to access methods such as next, which will go through
the collection to the next value.
So I'd explain this when I give it.
Demonstrate in a moment.
But for now you might be ask, asking why use iterator instead of a loop?
It's a good question, but an iterator has the following advantages.
It has the ability to remove elements from collections.
It has the ability to move forward using the next method.
And it has the ability to check if there are more elements are not by using the has next command.
I'd also argue that its writers are generally safer as there is no risk of access in an index that isn't
now.
So let's see an example.
So in the clips, I'm going to simply copy and paste the class in the last lecture.
Calling this new one l 24 lecture 20.
And given a name of iterator.
Lincoln, open up that class and I'm going to remove the for loop from the last lecture and also animal
will start remove.
So the first thing I'm going to do is is right it's writer with the capital I.
And I am going to define the data type.
So it's going to be using in strings and I'm going to give it a name of it which equals the collection
name, which is animals.
And then if I use the dots here, you'll see I'll be given access to a number of methods and I'm going
to use one called dot iterator.
And place a semicolon at the end.
So you can see it as an error on the iterator.
And the reason for that is we need to import it.
So make sure to import the one from java util.
And that area will go away.
So what I'm going to do here is use a simple system.
Dots out dot prints on.
And I'm going to use the IT object and then use the method next like so.
So why expect this it's object to do is to look at the collection and its collection of list is stored
in these strings.
And then when I use it next, I expect the object to then look at the first string value in the collection.
So if I use this line again, if I copy and paste it below.
Then once this first line has executed, it will be looking at Cat.
But when I execute this line after, it's going to go from this string value to the next string value
in the collection.
So let me say this and try running it.
And you can see the values cat and dog have been printed.
And if I was to add another line of thought next.
I may add another nother line as well.
So I've got four now and save it.
Let's see what happens.
So you can see that it's not it printed every single value in that collection because it's moved to
the next and the next and the next value based on these four lines.
So what happens if I add one more line here?
Let's see what happens.
You can see it as an area.
They say no such elements exception.
And the reason for that is once it's got to this stage and then this line here tries to execute because
there isn't another value in the collection, outputs an error.
So how about if I tried using instead dot next year?
I used the method has next.
So this is a boolean method, so it would return true or false?
Now, what do you think will happen here when I execute this code?
Let's take a look.
So I'm going to say this class and run it once more.
And you can see that the value of force has been outputted.
But if I was to change the position of this line and place it here before the last value.
Let me try running it again and see what happens.
And you can see the value is true.
So the dog has.
Next method is a boolean method which choose to return a true or false value depending if there is a
next value in the collection based on the position of where the object is in the collection.
So I hope this has been a good introduction to the iterator interface in Java and I'll speak to you
in the next lecture.